I've managed millions of Google ad spend
and I keep seeing brands make the same
mistake when it comes to performance
max. They keep thinking that it is a
fullfunnel campaign time when it simply
isn't. The most common advice for people
is out there is to consolidate your
campaigns into a single PMAX campaign
and just let Google figure out how much
to spend on search, shopping, display
and video depending on performance. Use
advanced AI algorithms, etc. The pitch
is basically twofold. One, the algorithm
knows much better than you. So why even
try to beat it? And the second thing is
that PMAC can push top funnel users
through display and video to feed your
funnel on search, which is so highly
demanding on people actually seeing a
display ad for you first. So the the
problem with this approach is that it
assumes that a all products are equal, b
that search and shopping perform
optimally with the same ros target and
that pmax actually targets top traffic.
All those assumptions are wrong. So if
we look at it, let's look at number one.
Your products are split into different
categories. So in this case, let's take
a look at number one. all your products
being equal because you're you'll
normally have them split up in something
like called bestsellers, unprofitable,
longtail, low traffic, etc. So, if you
take a look at an account then in this
case we we use a slightly different
naming um but we use bestsellers. You
can see that has a much better
conversion rate than we have in suburus
which is our unprofitable conversion
rate is actually okay for first string
and in the youth academy which is what
we simply call anything that doesn't
have enough traffic to be to get over a
different threshold to be called a
bestseller or a low pro unprofitable
product. There is different performance
across all of them. They need to be
treated differently. Some businesses
also have new products. Some businesses
have external and internal brands etc
etc but thinking that all products are
the same that's a problem. So search and
shopping which the second one search and
shopping perform optimally at the same
ro target. So let's go into another uh
another account. So this is just pulling
out some data where we'll take a look at
okay what does search pull in? What does
shopping pull in on a on a list of
accounts that we have access to. Um so
you can see here some accounts run
search and shopping where 5% of search
of the spend goes into search where
others are at a much more healthy 28%
20%
22%. The reason why that search and
shopping are not doing the same is
because they might need different roy
targets. They might need to be optimized
differently. They they might need some
different things. I could add like a
bunch of extra points here but I just I
I'll stick to to to this point. shopping
will routinely be able to produce a
higher ROS than than search. So setting
the same ROS target is insufficient for
growth. Now this is less important if
you're just starting out or you don't
expect Google ads to grow. But if you
just if so if you just want to tap into
whatever such shopping can provide then
it can be a good option to run PMAX. But
if you want Google ads to grow, then
figuring out at what ROS level shopping
will maximize the volume and maximize
the profit and the same for search, that
is a lot better than just assuming that
it's the same ro target for both. The
example of course being that it's better
to be barely profitable at a 20 $20,000
monthly re uh spend on search than
trying to be very profitable on a $5,000
monthly spend. So, some might counter
this and say it's better to to be lean
and profitable, which might be the right
approach in some cases, but if you're
looking to grow, then the added value of
spending $20,000 a month while being
barely profitable is usually much
better. The higher the spend drives more
stability, drives more traffic, more
data to optimize, all of which will help
you become more profitable in the
future. Limiting spend to being the most
profitable you can be now is a mistake.
the most m advertisers make when they're
looking to grow. And then the third one
that Pmax actively targets topfunnal
traffic. This assumption is a very very
common misunderstanding. I think I know
where it's coming from.
So it stems from everyone thinking that
display and video traffic automatically
means topfunnel, but that's not the
case. Again we have display and video in
this in Pmax is tied to the same row as
target as search and shopping. So in
order to hit the same row as target for
s that you're do on display as you're
doing on search then you need to do
retargeting. So just because we're it's
push advertising like display video
doesn't mean we're actively targeting
people at the top of the funnel. So what
should we do instead? Three things. one,
you can consolidate your data for smart
bidding, which is a win. Most people
don't realize this that when they go
from stand their more advanced setup and
just plump it all into a pax, the reason
why it does better is because you just
aggregate the data. The second thing is
that you tap into search. A lot of
people before PMAX came out weren't
running dynamic search ads, which I've
been preaching for years you're supposed
to do. So you tap into these 10 30% of
searches uh that you otherwise miss if
you don't run any search or any dynamic
search ads and then of course
retargeting on display and video can
drive some additional conversions. It's
still to this day a very small amount in
most accounts. So this is this is this
is valuable. The other side of all this
that I kind of touched on is that you
can't do much to optimize the experience
which means you can't really
you can't make anything better. So, if
you know what you're doing and you're
good at at Google Ads, then you don't
have any access to actually improve
things any longer. So, there's five
things you can do. That's just this is
just five examples of things that we do
on a daily basis or weekly or monthly
basis that perform that makes your
campaigns perform better. So, one thing
is we can't run any ad testing, landing
page testing, etc. in in search within
PMAX. And here is just a a slight
example where we went in, we did a test,
we try to have the the client used to
have trust based ads in their entire in
their entire all their campaigns. Then
they have price focused ads and then we
went in we simply use chatb to write a
customized first version and do it
across the board. It basically converted
two to three times better than anything
else out there. um
very um so I would say that this is
something that most people should do and
most people don't do enough and you
can't do it in Pmax yet. Then there's
testing different targets for different
keywords because the example of course
being like if you have the keyword Nike
running shoes at a 500% target then you
like the keyword running shoes is so
broad. It's like a if if you sell
running shoes as a core keyword. You
want to see where do you get the highest
amount of volume for that and maybe
sometimes that's below your typical ROS
target, you can't make any decisions on
this inside of PMAX. Being able to
aggregate multiple campaigns into a
single bit strategy. So you give the
system more data is just a a super nice
thing to do. Also gives us more data on
how we can actually change things.
change the max CBC's, change minimum
CBC's, we can see projected rows and
other things that are harder to see
across multiple PMAX campaigns if you're
running multiple. Um, so I love B
strategies. I I talk about all the time.
And then a big one for me is that this
this thing number five we can't do and
it's a little bit broader, but it is we
have no way to know what happens if
performance decreases or increases. Like
I get it. If everything is going up and
to the right, then I don't care why it
happens. Yeah, let's just sit back.
Let's be happy. Let's let's count our
money. Let's just get all the revenue at
the highest row as possible we can. I
don't care how it happens, but that's
best case scenario. What happens when
performance drops or starts stagnating?
And that's where a lot of the
conversations we have is, hey, we've
been running PMAX. It did well, but now
we've kind of been stagnant for three
months, six months, nine months, 12
months, 18 months. Once it starts
dropping or start being stagnant, it's
very nice to know, is it because we're
not getting enough out of search,
shopping, display, or YouTube? Is it
because we our brand keywords are are
getting hit? Is it our broader category
keywords? Is it is our money keywords,
is core keywords? Is it um is it
increased competition on search? Is it
increased competition on shopping? what
what is it that that that means that
we're dropping in performance or we're
not growing anymore and because one part
is knowing the other part is actually
doing something about it. You don't have
access to influence much in in
performance max. when something goes
wrong and let's just say you figure out
what to actually do or what it is that's
wrong, you don't have a lot of options
to actually optimize it because you can
kind of change the budget, but that
doesn't do much. Then you can change the
ROS target up or down. What does that
solve? Then you can like yes, we can we
can remove products and and do some
different things. you can play with
asset groups which just doesn't do
anything. So that's a problem. So
everything is good until it's not good
anymore. And that's really the biggest
issue with Pmax and consolidating
everything. The opposite obviously of
consolidating everything in Pmax is to
run dedicated search and shopping
campaigns. Search campaigns targeting
brands, categories, your generic
keywords where you test ads following a
framework. You find out what is our what
what should our ideal target rowers be?
what should our max CPCs be? And you
increase, decrease, you make changes for
that throughout the year. Then standard
shopping using some kind of
sophisticated campaign structure to
isolate performance without splitting
out the data too much. Uh so smart bing
can't perform again around 300
conversions per month per bit strategy
at the very least. I know that's
different than Google's uh
recommendations, but I disagree with
their recommendations a ton, especially
in e-commerce. So if you just if we just
go a step back and try to compare it. So
PMAX is focused on simplifying
management. You have fewer optimization
options. You have fewer insights that
will fuel optimization ideas and you'll
basically do the same thing as everyone
else. That is fine as long as everything
goes well. It's fine if you don't have
the skill set to actually run more
dedicated standalone campaigns. But if
you feel you're stagnating, if you feel
your performance is starting to go down,
then you just need to understand that
there is another level. Changing asset
groups and changing some of these things
with PM is not going to make a big
difference. Going to standalone search,
going to standalone uh shopping ads, it
works incredibly well. It does require
experience. It does require knowhow. It
gives you a bunch of vast optimization
options and areas to go. It gives you
more insights to help fuel some of these
optimization ideas and it is a way to
actually take it everything a step
further, but it does require that you
know what you're doing. Summarizing a
little bit what we've learned today,
throwing everything in to PMS campaigns
is akin to throwing pasta on the wall
and see what sticks. You basically just
apply rose target, give Google a bunch
of products and landing pages and
whatever it can hit or it's the target
rose on it will spend on. The second
thing is that dedicated search and
shopping campaigns allow you to take it
one step further and optimize in two
ways. One, maximize performance from
your highest performance segments. You
can identify low performance segments.
You can improve low performance segments
with different optimization tactics like
well it's in the platform with using
bidding strategies etc. or off the
platform completely. The third one is
just remember dedicated search and
shopping campaigns do require some
knowhow. So if you've only worked with
PMAX in the past and you have some
learning to do. There's plent of
resources. Anything before 2023 will
still be applicable for a lot of things.
Uh spending the time learning and
applying some of these tactics can
really allow a huge unlock in your
account. So that was it for me today.
Subscribe for more tips. There's a new
video on Google Ads out every single
week. If you have any thoughts, any
comments, I'd love to hear from you in
the comment sections. See you later.